Name                                  Type        File
281057e0-e801-42e8-b0b6-c117d0c690b1  Instance    instances.fsh
283                                   Instance    instances.fsh
AuthorizationIdentifier               Profile     profiles.fsh
DK Valid Identifier                   ValueSet    valueSets.fsh
DkCoreCprIdentifier                   Profile     profiles.fsh
DkCoreCprIdentifierSystem             CodeSystem  codeSystems.fsh
DkCorePatient                         Profile     profiles.fsh
Lpr3Identifier                        Profile     profiles.fsh
MunicipalityCodes                     ValueSet    valueSets.fsh
MunicipalityCodes                     Extension   extensions.fsh
RegionalSubDivisionCodes              Extension   extensions.fsh
RegionalSubdivisionCodes              ValueSet    valueSets.fsh
SORIdentifier                         Profile     profiles.fsh
administrative-gender-supplement      Instance    instances.fsh
authorization-id-format               Invariant   invariants.fsh
bubber                                Instance    instances.fsh
bubber-wrong                          Instance    instances.fsh
cpr                                   Invariant   invariants.fsh
cpr                                   Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-MunicipalityCodes             Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-RegionalSubDivisionCodes      Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-cpr-identifier-system         Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-municipality-codes            Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-municipality-codes-greenland  Instance    instances.fsh
dk-core-regional-subdivision-codes    Instance    instances.fsh
dk-marital-status-of-CodeSystem       Instance    instances.fsh
dk-marital-status-of-ValueSet         Instance    instances.fsh
episodeOfCare-example                 Instance    instances.fsh
episodeOfCare-example-wrong           Instance    instances.fsh
marital-status-unknown-usage          Invariant   invariants.fsh
min-digits-sor                        Invariant   invariants.fsh
mogensen                              Instance    instances.fsh
sor                                   Instance    instances.fsh
ukendt                                Instance    instances.fsh
uuid                                  Invariant   invariants.fsh